
[//]: # test machine: csel-kh4250-49 
[//]: # group number: G41
[//]: # name: Michael Spiese, Jack Vehmeier, Isaac Hein 
[//]: # x500: spies046, vehme003, hein0540

# Project 2 : Recursive grep
### Project Group Number: 41
### Group members: Michael Spiese (spies046), Jack Vehmeier (vehme003), Isaac Hein (hein0540) 

## Individual Contributions
For individual contributions, Jack primarily handled creating the string matching code,
and the searchPatternInFile function, Isaac primarily handled the pipes and IO redirection
portion, and Michael handled handle directory traversal and soft links. All contributions 
were then combined together remotely as a group.

## Assumptions
Outside of those in the manual, no other assumptions were made about the data or project.

## Compiling the Program
Compilation of the program was done with a Makefile. First, to ensure the executable program files
are up to date, the following terminal command removes all object files and executables from the
current directory:

	> make clean
	
The "make clean" command is analogous to running the following terminal commands in order:

	> rm master
	> rm child
	> rm lib/utils.o

Next, to compile all source files into the files needed to run the program, the following command is used:

	> make master
	
The "make master" command is analagous to running the following terminal commands in order:
	
	> src/master.c lib/utils.o child
	> gcc -g -Iinclude lib/utils.o src/master.c -o master

## Execution
Finally, to execute the program with a single input file, one of the following commands is used:

	> make run1
	> make run2 
	...
	> make run8
	
The "make run[#1-8]" command is analagous to running one of the following commands in the terminal:

	> ./master input/ip1 Imagine
	> ./master input/ip2 I
	> ./master input/ip3 me
	> ./master input/ip4 they
	> ./master input/ip5 us
	> ./master input/ip6 just
	> ./master input/ip7 word
	> ./master input/ip8 word

Each command searches the input directory for instances of the specific word after the input folder. It 
is important to note that for our submission, "make run7" and "make run8" are not expected to work, as 
these cases relate to handling hard links, which was an extra part of the assignment that our group did 
not complete. So while they can be run, they will not produce correct output (applicable also for the 
description of "make run" below).

To execute all of these programs and write to the corresponding output files, run the following command:

	> make run

The "make run" command is analagous to running the following terminal commands in order:

	> rm -f ./output/*
	> make run1 > ./output/run1.out
	> make run2 > ./output/run2.out
	> make run3 > ./output/run3.out
	> make run4 > ./output/run4.out
	> make run5 > ./output/run5.out
	> make run6 > ./output/run6.out
	> make run7 > ./output/run7.out
	> make run8 > ./output/run8.out

## Results
Results output to the terminal, however, it can be redirected to a file. The files generated by the "make run" 
command can be found in the "output" folder after each run of the command. Every output file's name is of the form 
"run[#1-8].out" where [#1-8] is the corresponding input command. Each file should have on the first line output
showing the program entering the directory, on the second line the command (ex "./master input/ip1 Imagine")
and then each following line with one example of the word seen in the input directory. The last line will be
nearly the same as the first, but says "Leaving directory" instead of "Entering directory".
